 

This the best game of ubisoft ever I love it because of its incredible story, gameplay, free roam etc best game in the worldI am sure that this going to be liked by every one because it is the best part of the franchise

Ubisoft's main attraction is that it puts games into historical moments. In this case, Ezio Auditore the Firenze, the protagonist of this game was able to travel through several Italian Renaissance cities, and each of the cities were as big as the cities back then, and had great detail. I don't think any other studio would make a game that takes place in the Renaissance. Most studios would just repeat the war FPS's. This game is unique, and is undoubtedly one of the best games of all time.

Nothing, I mean no game beats te story of Assassins Creed 2. The gameplay is also one of the best and it became better through Brotherhood and Revelations. Only a true Assassin Creed fan would appreciate this. Undoubtedly the best Ubisoft game till date and among the best sandbox games ever made.

This game was a true step forward!

The most adventurous game I have ever played! I loved it very very much!

Dafuq?!? It should be on top 5!1) AC 32) FC 33) AC Revelations4) Future Soldier5) Forgotten SandsAnd on...Then even Watch Dogs is coming out so every game I listed will shift 1 rank downSeriously guys, work on your ratings!

One of the best game which I have ever played. It is much more better than Call of Duty, POP, Grand Theft Auto etc. It have best graphics and great gameplay.

This game brings back good memories :D

Great Game better than Assassin's Creed

Great game, it is huge game with a huge map and tons of things to do and find. The world is so beautiful full of tropical islands. Countless treasure maps. Endless conflict with ships hunting animals sharks and giant Wales in a size of the ship. A plenty of upgrades on the ship makes it better and better. The story keeps you thinking. It is a catchy story with pirates that make it always wonder what will happen next

Most of my favoarite game..i'm play all assassin's creed..

Just awesome

Best game and best adventure

Best game of the assassins creed Series

Best thing that's happened to assassin's creed since assassin's creed

It's my first ubisoft game which I have played after it I have played several games of ubisoft but it's best

This game should be number 1, I mean ubisoft making an open world game like watch dogs wow guys best game ever

The gameplay seems just epic

Fake list this game should be number 1

Masterpiece

Badass one but in my opinion, Far Cry 3 was better. I prefer Jason Brody than Ajay Gale.

What is important for Ubisoft games is the soundtrack, you can't finish this game without leaving a tear.

By far one of the greatest games of all time and this should be one and black flag should be at the bottom

Amazing, better coop than in 3.

It is dashing and extraordinary game of 2010 breaking all the records controlling over nature is the fab thing of this game thanks for ubisoft for making this extraordinary game. My sincerest thanks

Prince of Persia like never before. It is most daring unique, filled with surprise and thriller ever designed by ubisoft. It is breaking recording and make person more at unrest because he can't escape playing it.

Wow chi ka w

It's a good game but AC series is the best

Best game I've played yet in assassins creed

Best game I ever played in assasin's Creed

This game is the best I've ever played

It should be on top of all

Its great thank you ubisoft

Great game by ubisoft

Best game working on low system requirements

I hate this jgame

The best action-stealth video game ever - speed96

This game has not perfect movement that's the problem with this game

The split screen mode is awesome

This is the worst splintercell game chaos theory and pandora tomorrow are way better

Two Thrones is a very good game even though it was made easier by speed kills.

It doesn't contain high quality graphics, the game is very nice

Liked this game very muchand worth giving a try! And story is also very good

It's a first game I played when I was 6 th std it fall love on ubisoft it mad me mad to play best games of ubisoft

Awesome it's just the third series in the assasins creed Ezio's installment.

That was the first one I played and I loved it

Another masterpiece from a the modern day gaming power house...

Great game but Ezio is much older.

I like assassin creed

Do you guys think this game sucks? I just asking...

It is a very nice game

Why isn't buck bumble for N64 on this list

E for everyone? There's blood on rayman's hand more like E for evil!

It's good because you can create your own gang

Its hot. You get knifes, and brass knuckles

It's the best game ever its one of ubisoft best games ever

Jack the ripper is awesome

The only multiplayer Ubisoft game that still has a growing player base nearly a year and a half since release.

Realistic first person shooter game, based on real special forces around the world and keeps growing to so much more! New operators and maps in place. Best online tactical game with co-ordination, thinking and being good on the guns is needed. Great game.

This is the best first person shooter out there in terms of gameplay

Even from videos it looks ok, however when you play it it's a amazing time. (Also try playing it with friends)

The best well planned game I ever played.

This game will rock my worldThe first game that is going to attract my attention after call of dyty

Amazing game with amazing graphics and amazing story

As an Iranian it's one of the best games I've ever played it's music was great and puzzles were well made I had the chance to know about this game when I was at my friend's house accidentally

Played it as a kid. Loved climbing wall and wall running - Jonerman

Prince of persia series 1.2.3 I can't believe how they make it. 10 of 10

I've finished it more than 30 times and it's the awesomest game ever!

Prince of persia warrior within is a very nice game because it has best action and it has best music.But there is one small mistake that is in some places in prince of persia warrior within graphic quality will be little less

The music, the story, the characters all took me to an unforgettable ride where I felt like the prince myself trying with all my heart to save my kaileena from DAHAKA...

Best video game ever played



 



