 

The most best storyline in a game!

A gem of a video game. It is probably the only game that has successfully blended action, stealth, puzzle solving and narrative into pure perfection.Waiting for the sequel! Ubisoft, why you do dis?!

You have to be a fool to not appreciate this game. It's blends in action, stealth, platforming, puzzle-solving, racing, ^^ action all balanced into one, effortlessly. The only flaw with this game is that it, still to this day doesn't have a sequel! Ubisoft, I beg you, released Beyond Good ^^ Evil!

This game has the stealth and parkour of assassins creed, the great outpost and hq take downs far cry, the seamless multiplayer missions of the division, and the extreme sports aspect of steep all packed into a pretty damn good open world to explore, discover, and find new hilarious ways to interact with.

It's just great.

This game is amazing

AWESOME!

How is this not number one? It should AT LEAST be in the top three...

Absolute best

Why the hell is conviction so much higher than this. blacklist and splinter cell 1 should both be higher up than conviction and this should be number 2 after AC 2

I love assassins creed and far cry but I spent over 20 hours this weekend playing the open beta. I can say without a doubt that I am going to be addicted to this game

This game is so funny the games are creative and sometimes disgusting the only problem is that most of the games have you taking turns in multiplayer but this is still a great game

This masterpiece isn't easily forgotten, sadly enough it's placed very low on the list. With no offense in mind I think there's much of the assassins creed fanboism which brings it down.

Amazing game! Except the game boy color version!

Amazing game, overlooked too much!

Legendary game

This should be on number 4 or something

One of the first games I played both on XBox and PC absolutely love this game this game needs more people knowing it WHY IS IT SO UNDERRATED (same with Republic Commando)

The start of famous series

Am not gonna lie,this game deserves to be in top 5.

Not the best but should be higher in the list

This game has an amazing storyline. It has missions around the whole world with very realistic attacks with the best selection of weapons to any game. The characters are perfection E.G. Sam fisher, Charlie Cole. flaws: bad ending and always dark during gameplay without goggles. To conclude its one of Ubisofts best games god bless this company.

Great game but Ubisoft doesn't provide after release support to update the game. When you open a ticket they just answer their automated answer "Thanks we noticed your report, we will transmit it".Result: - - If you uninstall and reinstall the game, you will have to replay again the full campaign to unlock all coop missions and unlock all items again and again. You multiplayer profile will be reseted to zero and you will have to play hours and hours to unlock items.- You can't unlock some items, because you can't login into the mobile application since 2014...- The multiplayer is full of cheaters since the start of the game...

Great game. Made me fall in love with the series and looking to get many other Ubisoft games. Love the outfits as well.

Can't wait for this and Far Cry 4

The future of ubisoft

Great Game,fabulous graphics,i have never had any problems with glitches thanks to the patch. Ubisoft even gives you a free DLC.

If you really need a quality game I am alive is one of the best from the graphics to everything you might need to play this game. Get you copy it available in xbox 360, playstations and pc

I have played this over and over again, can't seem to forget it...

I have completed this game 14 times lol

Best entry in the series, and a fantastic game that almost holds up to this day.

The best light graphic game ever

I used to go to a friends house, and we would play the crap out of this amazing game.

Legends was great but origins has to be the best

I had play hawx & hawx 2 and I like it more than ace combat because it's more realistic and I like that



 



