 

If you are experiencing issues not addressed in our FAQ, click here to contact our support team.

The Tom Clancy’s The Division Beta is your chance to test and experience a pre-release version of the game before it launches. Plus, it serves as an important opportunity to make sure that the game is balanced and that the servers are tested to pave the way for a smooth launch. The beta will not be a full version of the game, and will only function during specific time frames.

Xbox One players will have 24 hour early access to The Division Closed Beta, starting on January 28th. The beta will start on January 29th for PS4 and PC players.

There are a limited number of guaranteed access codes for the beta. In order to receive one, you must pre-order Tom Clancy’s The Division for Xbox One, PlayStation®4 system, or PC from a participating retailer. Find a participating retailer by visiting thedivisiongame.com/buy. You can also choose to register for the waiting list, but this does not guarantee beta access.

Depending on the retailer, your code could be printed on the retail receipt, provided to you on a printed card, or sent to you via email. If you did not receive or cannot locate your beta code, please contact your retailer. Pre-purchases made via Xbox Store, PlayStation®Store, or Steam will not require a code. In these cases, access to the beta is automatically granted!

Return to thedivisiongame.com/beta and enter the beta code you were provided with by the retailer. You will automatically be upgraded from the waiting list and have guaranteed access.

When you pre-order, you’ll receive an access code from your retailer. It will look something like: xxxxxxxxxxxx

Please visit thedivisiongame.com/beta and follow the instructions on the page to redeem this code. You will receive further instructions by email shortly before the start of the beta!

Tom Clancy’s The Division can be played solo or with a team. If you would like to try the beta out with your friends, you can input their email addresses and we will send them a personalized invitation on your behalf to register for the beta! Rest assured we will not email your friends beyond this invitation unless they choose to sign up, nor will we share their email addresses with any partners or third parties.

If you’ve lost your beta code or the code is illegible, please contact your retailer about getting a copy of your lost or damaged beta code.

Don’t panic. If you receive an error message when entering your beta code at thedivisiongame.com/beta, please verify the code and try again. Please keep in mind that sometimes oes (O) and zeros (0) look similar. If you continue to see an error message, please contact Ubisoft Customer Support.

Data gathered during the beta along with the feedback you provide us about our game is extremely important to the success and stability of the final retail release of Tom Clancy’s The Division. As a thank-you for participating in the beta, you may be eligible to receive special in-game rewards that can be unlocked in the full release of the game! More details about this will be revealed at a later date. Follow @thedivisiongame on Twitter to stay informed about these opportunities.

Yes, you will need a Uplay account to redeem your code on the website or register for the waiting list. If you don’t have an account, you’ll be prompted to create one during the process of redeeming your beta code or registering for the waiting list. It’s a simple and free process!

Xbox One and PlayStation®4 system owners will not need an Xbox Live Gold or PlayStation®Plus membership to access and play the beta. However, there are some game modes that require such accounts. More details on this will be released in the future.

The game is still in development and we’re focusing on providing the best experience for all players. We are currently at a stage in production where we have yet to finalize our technical optimization for each version. We will update the FAQ when we will be able to announce the required specs.

If your issue is not listed in this FAQ, please contact Ubisoft Customer Support.

Tom Clancy’s The Division Alpha will be available on Xbox One.

The alpha will begin December 9 at 10 AM CET | 4 AM EST | 1 AM PST and will end December 12 at 9AM | 3 AM EST | 12 AM PST CET. We will begin sending codes on December 7, so keep an eye on your email.

No. There is an NDA (non-disclosure agreement) for this alpha. By accepting the NDA, you are agreeing to not disclose alpha information and footage to the public. This includes, but is not limited to:

  

 • Capturing gameplay content

 

 • Livestreaming

 

 • Posting images

 

 • Discussing the alpha anywhere outside of the alpha forums.

  

 Please keep in mind that The Division Alpha is not a final representation of the game. For this alpha, we will be focusing mainly on gameplay feedback and other technical aspects such as server stability. This is the first time The Division will actively be in a public testing phase, so signing an NDA is required to participate.

The alpha will be available worldwide except for Japan and China.

The game client (voices, subtitles and interface) will only be available in English for this alpha. Additional languages will be available in the beta in early 2016 and at launch.

The download size of the alpha will be 23.2 GB.

We invite all our selected Alpha players to share their experience and feedback on our private The Division Alpha forums, at thedivisiongame.com/alpha-forums. Access to these forums will be granted only to Alpha players. This is the only place you are allowed to discuss the Alpha.

Tom Clancy’s The Division will be released worldwide on Xbox One, PC, and PlayStation 4 on March 8, 2016.

© 2017 Ubisoft Entertainment. All Rights Reserved. Snowdrop, Tom Clancy’s, The Division logo, the Soldier Icon, Uplay, the Uplay logo, Ubi.com, Ubisoft, and the Ubisoft logo are trademarks of Ubisoft Entertainment in the US and/or other countries. The “PS” Family logo is a registered trademark and “PS4” is a trademark of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. Software platform logo (TM and ©) EMA 2017.

   UBISOFT PRIVACY POLICY   UBISOFT TERMS OF USE



 



